If you're a web developer, GitHub is
basically your second home. But let's be
real, there are millions of repos out
there, and most of them are just
halffinish side projects abandoned in
2017. Today, I'm going to save you the
pain and show you the only GitHub repos
you actually need as a webdev. These
will make you smarter, faster, and
honestly, just better at your job.
>> I'm stronger. I'm smarter.
I'm better. I am better. But before we
start, please like this video and
subscribe to become a fellow code head.
All right, back to the video. Let's
start with one of my favorites, Build
Your Own X. This repo is like a
playground for developers who want to
really understand how things work under
the hood. It gives you tutorials and
guides to build everything from your own
operating system to your own database to
even your own blockchain. It's like
hacking the matrix but with code. And
trust me, building your own mini Reddus
or Git clone will make you understand
real world tools in a way tutorials
never could. It is completely free and
maintained by the same people behind
Code Crafters, so you know it's super
legit. Oh, and speaking of Code
Crafters, you can use the link in the
description to get 40% off the premium
version. Enjoy, fellow code head. Now,
maybe you don't want to reinvent the
wheel. You just want solid hands-on
practice. That's where project-based
learning comes in. This repo is packed
with tutorials that teach you
programming concepts. By building actual
projects, websites, apps, machine
learning models, you name it. Instead of
staring at another div centering
tutorial, you're building something
useful while learning. It's the best way
to go from theory to real coding skills
that stick. Next, tech interview
handbook. Whether you're grinding lead
code problems or just want to stop
sweating every time someone asks you
about binary trees, this repo is gold.
It's not just coding questions. It
covers system design, behavioral
interviews, and negotiation tips.
Basically, it's the survival guide for
anyone who wants to get through big tech
interviews without losing their sanity.
Then there's public APIs. Imagine you're
building a project and you need weather
data, movie info, random jokes, or, god
forbid, a job. Instead of spending hours
scraping sites, this repo has a giant
collection of free APIs you can plug
right into your app. You can go from
zero to look, it works in minutes.
Perfect for hackathons, practice
projects, or just flexing on your
friends. Clean code is another
must-have. It's inspired by Robert C.
Martin's classic book, but in repo form.
It shows examples of messy code.
>> Oh my god, bro.
>> And then rewrites it into something
elegant and readable.
>> Oh my god.
Wow.
>> Because let's face it, writing code that
works is one thing. Writing code that
other humans can actually understand is
another. And yes, your future self
counts as another human. Speaking of
reference, Dev Docs is like the Swiss
Army knife of documentation. Instead of
opening 27 tabs for MDN, React Docs, or
Node.js, you can just use Dev Docs.
Everything is in one place, searchable
and offline friendly. It's basically the
Google of Docs, but without the endless
SEO spam. Next up, System Design Primer.
Even if you're not an architect,
understanding system design is crucial
once you're working on real world apps.
This repo breaks down things like load
balancing, caching, database sharding,
all this scary stuff into bite-size
explanations. And if you ever get hit
with the classic design Twitter
interview question, this is your secret
weapon. Free programming books is like
the library of Alexandria for coders.
Thousands of free books, tutorials, and
resources across every language you can
think of. You can literally learn Rust,
Go, or Assembly without paying a scent.
It's one of those repos you'll keep
coming back to whenever you feel like
leveling up. And finally, awesome cheat
sheets. These are lifesavers when you
just can't remember that one obscure
Docker command or the correct syntax in
React Hooks. Instead of googling it for
the 10th time, you just glance at a
cheat sheet. Super fast, super
practical. As a bonus, check out
front-end checklist. It's a repo that
gives you a comprehensive list of
everything you need to do for shipping a
website. performance, accessibility,
SEO, best practices. It's like a
pre-launch safety check so you don't
push something live and then realize you
forgot the favicon. So, there you go.
The only GitHub repos you actually need
as a web developer. You will find all
the links in the description below. So,
bookmark them, use them, and thank me
later when you look like a 10x dev just
because you had the right resources.
Thank you for sitting through yet
another tech rant. And if you enjoyed
it, leave a like and subscribe to become
a fellow code